{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
{\info
{\author Brian Marshall}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10440\viewh18080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 H.264\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs30 \cf0 Talking Points\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Technology Type\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 block-oriented Video compression ITU Standard\
a.k.a MPEG-4 AVC\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Technology Advantages\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}High compression with high quality\
{\listtext	\'95	}Industry adoption (Used on Blu-Ray discs, iTunes Store), hardware encoders / decoders will become pervasive. (Newer graphics cards already support accelerated decoding)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Hardware encoders/decoders are becoming more common\
{\listtext	\'95	}MPEG-4 part 10 or MPEG-4 AVC produces signals that are identical with ITU H.264  \
{\listtext	\'95	}GPL implementation (x264)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Design goals include:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Operation over SIP\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Variable bitrates/quality\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}File storage\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Multiple profiles allow for modular implementation, and advanced features in the future (Like Stereoscopic video)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Technology Disadvantages\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Computationally intensive encoding and decoding\
{\listtext	\'95	}Streaming over RTP is a fairly complex procedure and may degrade abnormally with packet loss without SVC (Needs further verification)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Large number of profiles increases complexity of deployment\
{\listtext	\'95	}Patented by Qualcom. (Enforceability of the patent is in question)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Bionet Positioning\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 H.264 is a video codec that has been flagged for use by Constellation. It is high quality for the bandwidth used, which makes it ideal for use over bandwidth-expensive links.\
\
Bionet is intended to allow any codec supported by RTP, which includes H.264. While it is possible to forward any stream without understanding the codec, producing an RTP stream from an H.264 source encoded in another container format will require some handling specific to H.264. In addition any HAB that encodes/publishes the stream, or a Client that decodes/displays the stream will need to understand the codec.  \
\
The next-gen Bionet Stream API must support a codec-agnostic produce/consume mode. However, given the complexities of video streaming, higher level APIs for specific codecs may be desirable to offer. \
\
A new independent library (doesn't require bionet) should be developed form RTP over BP streaming. This new library should support streaming H.264 content from standard containers (ex  .mp4) over RTP over BP. Also dumping RTP streams from BP into standard container formats.\
 \
Streaming over bionet or DTN links would be enhanced by using an SVC profile, but since it is still so new, our focus should be on making the standard profiles work well.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs30 \cf0 Notes\

\fs24 \
References\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (2009-03)\
{\listtext	\'95	}rfc3984 - RTP Payload Format for H.264\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 H.264 Summary
\b0 \
H.264 specifies a bitstream format, and a decoding process to decode the bitstream so that the video information can be displayed in a predictable manor. There are several profiles and levels defined that allow decoders with different capabilities to consume bitstreams that conform to certain profiles.\
\

\b x264
\b0 \
x264 is a high-quality H.264 encoder/decoder hosted by VideoLan.org. \
\

\b Network Abstraction Layer\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The Network Abstraction Layer (NAL) divides the coded bitstring into units that can be transmitted over a network. RTP defines a mechanism to transmit these units, which is special because the NAL units don't have a close relationship with time.\
\
The mechanism of encoding NAL units in RTP packets supports fragmentation/aggregation to minimize overhead for a given MTU.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Scalable Video Coding\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Scalable Video Coding (SVC) defines an additional set of profiles that are designed to allow several bitstreams to combine to make a full quality video. Dropping packets from the stream results in a graceful degradation of quality.\
Compared to the H.264 AVC, SVC is still new and has limited support. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Multi-view Video Coding\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 MVC is intended to efficiently support stereoscopic video coding for 3D displays.    \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 MPEG-4\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The term "MPEG-4" is sometimes used indiscriminately. MPEG-4 is a set of patented methods, including H.264. MPEG-4 is an evolving standard, and an application is not required to implement all parts. \
\
MPEG-4 AVC (MPEG-4 part 10) produces signals that are identical with ITU H.264\
\
MPEG-4 also defines a file container format for A/V data, and A/V synchronization and multiplexing for streaming or persisting to a file.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Video Compression Terminology
\b0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1860\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1860\fi-1860\sa100\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Frame: 	A single picture that represents a specific time of a video.  Frames displayed in succession make a moving image, often around 30 frames per second. Fames are composed of 2 fields, top and bottom. \
{\listtext	\'95	}Field:	For interlaced video, a frame is composed of two sequential fields, each representing alternating horizontal lines of the original frame. Where a frame is composed of a number of rows, and each row contains two lines, the top field contains the top lines of all rows, and so for the bottom. \
{\listtext	\'95	}Picture:	Either a field or a frame. Since interlaced video may compress a sequence of alternating frames, and progressive scan compresses the frame, the term picture is used when frame wouldn't be technically acurate.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Intra (I-Frame/Key Frame):	Frame of encoded video that contains all the information to display without relying on the contents of other frames. (Compare to Inter frame)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Inter P (P-Frame):	Frame of encoded video that contains the delta from a previous frame. (Predictive)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Inter B (B-Frame):	Frame of encoded video that contains a delta from preceding and following frames.  (Bi-Predictive)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Slice:	One or more macro-blocks ordered consecutively within a particular slice group. A slice group is list of macro-block that are not necessarily consecutive in the picture.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Macroblock:	A square group of pixels. (Pixels are specified as a luma and chroma values by H.264). Macroblocks within the picture are addressed starting with 0 at the top-left, and are sequential integers.\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Encoding\
\
H.264 encoding \
\
XXXXXX\
}